>> Kyle Simpson: We mentioned that there
was a kind of block called a conditional
in if statement.
Let's focus more specifically
on a conditional.
If I have the var [COUGH]
a is equal to 10,
and I wanna do something
only if a is greater than 5,
then I put an if statement around a block.
And here I say a is equal to a times 2.
So I'm only doubling the a variable.
I'm only doubling its value if it
was already greater than 5, for
whatever reason.
The if statement says, take this thing,
whatever this expression is,
and figure out if it's true or false.
>> Kyle Simpson: But there are statement
expressions that you can put there which
are not already true or false.
This one is, the greater than operator
always says that's either a true or false.
So the result of that operator
is always either true or false.
But there are certain expressions that
we could put here that would not result
in true or false by themselves.
For example, that expression.
Which is extremely common in JavaScript,
people put in expression like if (a).
The if statement still expects a true or
a false.
And if you don't pass a true or
a false, guess what has to happen?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: It has to convert.
Remember we talked about
type conversion before?
And I showed you type conversion
with numbers and strings?
Well, there's also type
conversion between any value and
what's called a boolean value,
that is the true or the false value.
So this variable gets converted either
to a true value or a false value.
And the rules for how that conversion
happens are fairly straightforward.
There's a list of values
defined in the JavaScript spec,
which are called falsy values.
Falsy, F-A-L-S-Y, okay?
So falsy values are defined as these.
0, negative 0, NaN,
which is the not a number number,
empty string,
false itself, null, and undefined.
That list of values is the list
of falsy values in JavaScript.
>> Kyle Simpson: And the easiest thing for
me to say is, the way you figure out
if something is truthy, that is, that
it's gonna become true, or it's falsy,
it's gonna become false,
is to just consult this list.
Memorize the list and
then just mentally consult it.
It is either a falsy value because
it's on this list, or the only other
option is that it must be truthy, it must
behave as a true value when coerced.
So essentially, you look at the list,
and if it's on the list, it's falsy,
if it's not on the list,
it must be truthy.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in our case, if that
was our list, let's scroll down now.
In our case, the question that
we now ask is, let me scroll so
I leave the list visible for you.
In our case, is a truthy or falsey?
>> Speaker 3: Truthy cuz it exists.
>> Kyle Simpson: Why is it truthy?
>> Speaker 3: Cuz you assigned it above.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not because
I assigned it above, but
because of what value it currently has.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
the value in a is the value 10.
Is the value 10 on the falsy list?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
if it's not on the falsy list,
it has to be conceptually
on the truthy list.
And all we need to know for
now is that a falsy value
becomes false when it has to be a boolean,
and a truthy value becomes true.
So if I said if (a), then a becomes true,
and the if statement executes.
Now what if a was 0, what would happen?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: The 0 value is a falsy
value, so it would result in false.
And the if statement would say,
if false, nope, not gonna do it.
So it makes a conditional decision based
upon whether the expression you give it is
true or false.
>> Speaker 3: So
could a person say if a equal false?
>> Kyle Simpson: You could compare
it directly to the true or
the false value, like that or like that.
I don't recommend it.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: There's lots of nuanced
reasons why I don't recommend it.
We won't go into those weeds.
There's a question in
the chat room about void 0.
So void is an operator.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not
very commonly used, but
it's an operator that everything that you
give it after the void becomes undefined.
So if I said void 42, if you try
that expression in your browser,
everybody try it, go to your console,
>> Kyle Simpson: Void
42 gives us undefined.
So no matter what you pass to void,
you get undefined back,
which means void 0 also
gives you undefined back.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's an operator,
just like plus or minus or whatever.
It's just an operator that
voids out [COUGH] the value and
leaves undefined in its place.